We are almost done with actually doing
something and making it look cool.
The last thing we got to
do is update our commands.
Our commands still don't do anything,
so we got to go put all these
things back in our commands.
And then we can test these things and
see what we broke because it
never works on the first time.
We know that no one no one's safe
from that, so [LAUGH] let's do that.
Let me pull up the page for that.
So updating the commands.
So and imagine all of this in one file,
right?
Like before we get to it, imagine,
all this stuff here, plus all of this
stuff here Plus all this stuff here in
one file, would be terrible, right?
This is where modules come in,
this is why it's great, and
you can see how I
abstracted things by logic.
Database stuff, command stuff, note stuff,
and it all kinda just comes back
into the command stuff,
which kinda comes into the index stuff.
So, It all flows together it's a very
natural thing it's not it doesn't require
a lot of planning.
This is eventually you just get used
to just like yeah, this is different.
We open up another file, make a new
module, this is just different stuff, so
I guess unless you're like writing view,
and then everything's just on one file.
So [LAUGH] that's just
how I like to view so
I'm not hating on it, but
that's just how it is.
Okay, anyway, let's do it.
First thing we need to do is actually what
we'll get to this when we get to this but
we let's start with the was
this one the new note?
Yeah, let's see the new note one.
So, the new note one is pretty simple.
So I'm just going to type in new,
Note, I'm gonna hit enter,
it's going to auto-import it for
me like that.
If not, you'll have to write it
yourself from the slash notes.
We got our note here,
so I'm gonna say note.
But if we look at the arguments for
new note, it takes in note and tags.
We do have a thing going on here,
let me get rid of that file.
The tags is a string.
But if we go look at new note,
it's expecting.
I mean, I guess it doesn't
really care what this is, but
this should be an array
should be an array of tags.
So I kind of need to convert them
to an array of tags, I'm sorry,
an array of strings.
So I'll say tags equals argv tags,
it's optional, so
maybe you didn't pass it in.
So if you did,
I'm gonna say argv dot tags dot split.
I'm gonna say all my tags
are split off of comma.
And if you didn't do that, then I'm just
gonna give you given an empty array.
You can make your tag split on whatever
you want, space, colon, whatever you want,
I'm going to make this split on a comma.
So that means you can pass me a string
of comma-separated words, and
each one is going to be a tag.
That way you can have
tags with spaces in them.
Okay, so we got our tags.
Now we need to create our note.
So I can say note equals.
And this is gonna be async,
so I'm gonna put async here,
Await New note takes in a argv dot.
Note this thing right here, argv dot note,
and it takes in our tags, right?
And then depending on how we wanna
return this Like how we want to show it
on the screen, we could log it.
What did I do?
Yeah, it looks like I just logged it.
So yeah, we could log it,
we could do whatever we want.
So I'll just log it just to be consistent.
New notes, and
then I'll say note like that.
We'll just do that All right,
so let's just do the ID.
Let's just do the whole note,
let's not be picky.
Okay, so let's give it a try.
So now I'm gonna go into my terminal,
I'm gonna say, notes,
new, clean my room, tags,
work, serious, inner.
We get a error because it can't find
notes import it from Command J.
So let's see.
Yeah, I need a dot js here.
There we go.
My auto import, my auto import
doesn't know you got to do.js.
It's like why do we got to do that?
Okay, then we get another error from dB,
I'm guessing the same thing
there's no dot js on notes.
There we go.
All right, that JS,
let me use type module, cool and
then boom once you fix those errors,
we get a new note.
And you can see right here our
tags are an array of strings,
our ID is just number and
then here's our content.
So that's really cool, but the even cooler
thing is if we go look in DB dot JSON,
there it is.
We have our notes in this array
it got inserted into the file.
So don't touch this file,
this is not a file for
you to go messing around with
you'll mess up the database.
This is the equivalent of going to your
production database and deleting stuff.
You'll get fired, so,
[LAUGH] Don't do that.
You might even get sued.
So yeah, don't ever touch a database
just let the code do its job.
Okay, so, and
you can see it's put in here, formatted.
And that's because we did that
Jason string of we did this right?
We did this which like formats it, it
makes it look pretty otherwise all just be
like on one flat line it'll be terrible.
Okay, so we have that,
the next command is all.
So just get all the notes and
we have a function for that, right?
So I think it's get all notes.
There we go.
So let's do that so we can say
notes equal awaits get all notes.
There we go, we got all notes.
I just don't wanna log them out.
I wanna show them in a certain way.
I have this utility function that
I created called listallnotes,
and all it really does is just log
each thing on a separate line.
I made it a utility function because
we're gonna use it more than once.
If I do anything more than once,
I'm gonna make a function out of it.
So I'm just gonna just
make that function again.
So I'm gonna go up here and honestly,
I wouldn't make another file here.
I'd make another file here and call it
utils and I'll put that in there because
this code has nothing to do with commands
and it should be in its own file.
But I'm just gonna put it here because,
I'm that lazy developer.
So lists, notes,
takes an array of notes and
it's just gonna log some stuff.
So we can just say console log,
what do I put here?
I mean,
there's really no right way for this.
So let's just say notes dot for each,
note that you have take a note and
then we'll just say console.log.
ID, note.id and
this is actually where I'm gonna
destructure because I don't
wanna do note dot everywhere
I go that's just my fingers
already hurting from doing it.
So I'm gonna destructure this I'm gonna
get the id I'm gonna get the content,
and I'm going to get the,
what does the other one?
Id tag there we go like
there's something else, okay?
So now I'm gonna go here to say id and
then I can say you tags, and
then I can go on here and
I can say content,
And then because I don't want my notes
touching each other, I want some padding.
So I'm gonna add a new line character,
which is basically just backslash and
that's a newline character.
So after each note add a new line.
All right, so
now we got our list notes function.
I can go down here to my notes and
I can just say, list these notes, please,
like that.
So let's give this a try.
So now I can just go here and
I can say, and
boom, we see our one note that we added.
Let's add some more notes.
I'm just keep adding the same note
over and over and over and over,
just to verify,
we can see that they all got added here.
And now I can just say
give me all of them.
And then they go.
Here's all of our notes,
separated by brand new line.
>> If we don't pass a tag, it will be
saved as undefined in our database?
>> If you don't pass a tag,
it will be saved as undefined.
I believe I handled that default,
but let's check.
It depends on what abstraction you use,
if you use the notes abstraction.
For instance, new note my friends,
if you wrote this code like I did,
it'll make an empty array.
So, it should be good
if I don't parse a tag.
You can also go down a layer deeper into
new note, and you could just do this.
You could say tags, or
actually you could just do this.
You could do that to make that a default
to empty array if they don't pass one.
So there's a lot of places you can
do defaults, so it's not undefined.
Or you can keep it undefined if you want
to, but undefined is probably gonna get
stripped out when you, Json,
string afi, so it'll just be removed.
Noel will stay there, but undefined won't,
or I think notice data, yeah.
So we also need to do filter.
So to do filter,
we also got to get all the notes.
So I'm gonna grab all of those notes here,
just like that.
And then we're gonna say,
filtered notes and or
I'm just gonna say
that's the same matches.
That's gonna be await find or
what is it called fine notes,
okay, yeah,
wait fine notes that takes in a filter,
or wait, hold on, let's see, find notes,
that's right, okay, I'm tripping.
We don't need to get all notes,
it gets the notes.
We just need to take the filter so
the filter would be, in this case,
argv.filter.
So argv.filter, will give us
the filter here we got our matches that
we just wanna list notes of the matches
because filter returns an array of notes.
So let's just list them because list
notes takes an array of notes so
it should work that's why
I wrote the function.
So let's do that before we do that though
I'm just gonna clean my database because
they're all the same note and if I filter
which is gonna get back the entire
database and so
like let's make some new notes.
So I'll make a new note for that one.
Then I'll make a new note that is way
different this time I will add a tag.
This will be like, walk my dog.
This one I'll make a note
that says like eat more food.
Cool, so
I got three different notes in here.
Clean my room, walk my dog, eat more food.
So now when I say notes find,
and I can say clean,
I'll get back the one that
only says clean my room.
If I say find dog I get
what it says walk my dog,
and if I just filter
on something literally
not here then she'll get back nothing.
Cool, any questions on that?
Okay, let's work on remove,
so remove an ID.
We know we have our utility method,
remove a note and it takes an id.
So we're assuming that this
command takes an id, and it does.
So we can just say const id equals
awaits remove notes by argv.id and
was logged the id like that.
Are you gonna do like an if statement?
If there was no ID that
means it wasn't found.
So let's try that.
So I'm going to find the one with the dog.
We're gonna grab the ID for it, like this.
Copy that, then I can say notes remove and
pass in that ID.
You can see it sent me the id back,
which is a success that it found it and
deleted it.
If I go back to my Json,
the dog one is gone.
All right, and
the last one is what do we have?
We got the web one.
We're not gonna do the web one right now,
[LAUGH] but we will do the clean one.
So the clean one's,
just removing all the notes and
then just letting us
know that we did that.
So let's go back to our commands, we'll
come back to the web one in a minute.
For clean, super free,
let's just say await, remove.
All notes like that and
then just console.log db reset it or
something like that whatever
you want to log so we got that.
So now if we go back verify I have two
notes in here if I call the remove,
so let's see what was it,
it is clean so note clean,
db reset it and the notes are empty,
okay, perfect so
looks like our clis,
I mean it's getting there.
You can do some pretty cool stuff with
this as far as like persisting things.
It's funny just how adding a file
like goes from like, okay,
this is cool to like, well hold on now
this is kind of like an app now like
we're persisting things, we're saving
things and it becomes more functional.
So, all right, we have that.
What we're gonna do next
is work on the testing and
then we got the web version of this
which is kinda like extra credit I
think is cool because no JS can do
server so why not talk about servers.